going to turn this on. So this is on. So I'm just going to say my name is Marcia Omani
and I'm with Stephanie Davis, Kristin Delivia Davis, Olivia Baker Jones and we are at Stephanie's
home in Rumney or at Marshfields. Oh it's Rumney in this area. Yes, yes. And it's Monday the 25th
of February 2019 I believe. I think that's a date. Okay then Stephanie, first of all thank you so much
for allowing me to come to your home today. Oh sure. And so what were you christened as?
Let me see, Olivia Stephanie Baker Jones but I was always called Stephanie. They didn't seem to use
the other. My father had the name Baker, he was a Baker Jones. Yeah. But I was born
just down the road from here, across the main road and into Hendra Road. Yeah. And there was a house
there that we lived in. It was called Hendra Vach and they, my, I think when my parents got married
they moved in there and my father did the place up but I think they only lived there. Well it must
have been about a year because I can remember asking my mother, how old was I when we moved to
the farm in Rumney and she said I was 12 months old. Gosh. So initially I don't remember too much
about the house. We moved over into the farm, upper Newton Farm it was called in Rumney and
we moved in there. It must have been, what let me see, doing about 1929, 1930.
Must have been. Do you remind me asking how old you are Stephanie? I'm 90.
Only recently 90 this past last year. Goodness you don't look 90 do you?
No. I say to people don't remind me. I just have.
But yes we moved. I can't remember too much of my early childhood down there
because I'd been so young moving in there. I must have been a year old and we lived,
because this was just before the war you see as well and I had my parents, we had a,
they had another child. My sister was born four years after me you know. What was her name? And
we lived, lived down in the farm then and it was not too much to do really.
It was, my father hadn't had, he used to live, the family, there's a farm down in St. Melonshire
that where the family lived. He lived there with his parents and what was it three brothers and
his sister and he started a bit of farming then. What was your father's name? Wilfred, Wilfred Baker
Jones. So he comes from, he came from farming stock? Yes, yes his parents, yes my grandparents
grandfather was farming down there. Is where the way you come up now down the road and up here
there's a big house called Teecock and that was the family home.
And I spent a lot of my childhood down there. At your grandparents farm? And what? At your
grandparents farm. Oh yes, yes, yes. It wasn't huge I don't suppose. The house was big but then
all the land was down there because it's all been built on now you see, there's all masses of houses
everywhere. So I was just looking at the view just now and it's been developed. What did it look like
when you were a child, if you were stood here as a child? Well I can't remember too much as a child
but I know when we first came here we moved in here about 1960s, Cathy was born that year.
There was of course there were hardly any houses then you just looked out, it was just a lot of
fields but since in the past 60 years it has been built on quite a lot you know.
And even above the road down it's a main road now but when we moved in it was a very narrow
country lane. What's it really? I can't believe that you know it's all built up now.
Yeah. So tell me about your grandparents farm. What did they do, what did they farm? Oh it was
oh it was just cows milking herds really that was all, I don't know whether.
There was a market garden as well? Yes there was a market garden I was just going to say that
and my father he was the eldest of the children and he left school I think as young as 12 or 14
because and then he used to he used to I think he must have had started up a milk around from there
and used to go round with a horse and cart, chins of milk and around here not so much not here really
I mean you know where we are now there was absolutely nothing here I mean this was this
ground here where the all these houses are it was fields and we used to make
my father used to come up here hay making you know really yeah it was just a field
and there was just one
it was a big house up the top which some a couple lived it was a brother and sister
oh it was the name Davis I can't remember though let me see
let me see
yes a brother and sister that lived in a big house up the top and eventually of course this
land belonged to them and bit by bit they sold it all the houses you know but
yes and down well I suppose the actual time on the farm has got to be the one down in Rumney
that's your father's farm yes my father's farm upper Newton farm it was there were three farms
together upper Newton middle Newton lower Newton and so you upper Newton was elevated you could
see well it was the first one that came you came to it was all on the flat really but it was just
the day with the first ones I forget who owned the land I'm trying to think that yes it was I
was just going to say to do with Tredegar House so was he a tenant farmer or did he buy well he was
he was a tenant farmer yes to start off with and eventually then he did get to to own it
it was a lot a lot of the farms were all being sold off you know eventually
but it was a long way out from the local village or to get anywhere was it oh it was
we were you know we had no transport in those days we had bicycles we cycled everywhere or we
everywhere or we walked everywhere I suppose it must have been a couple of miles from there
up into the village of rumney that was our nearest village and
we'd go there any shops or shopping we did or the church we went to was all in rumney you know
but it wasn't huge because it was
well just before the war really you know that's all I remember a bit before I can remember
during the war I can remember standing out on the yards in the in the at the farm
at the farm at in the evenings or at night time and listening to the the german planes going over
really and the search lights working there was a search light battery in one of the fields nearby
yeah and then another lot there was a a gun emplacement you know in another they parked
them around all the farms down there you know but it was only I mean it wasn't a huge farm because
my father had maybe 10 or 12 cows that he'd have to milk every day well then he had a horse and cart
and he had a milk round and he
had I often wondered what time he got up to milk in the morning to get it done so that he could
take it out on the milk run because he very often used to give me a lift up to school in rumney so
it must have been earliest what on the horse and cart in the yes really gosh yes I from the farm
I'd ever lift up into the village he dropped me off in the village and then I'd walk the rest of
the way then to school and so would he have a churn on the cart and you have a jug yes he did
yes there were no milk bottles in those days it was a churn churn full of milk as you say
um that had a it was a measuring can that he used to use and um
very often when he'd go then he I think he may have had a few customers in rumney but then used
to go on across to what is now oh the main road through into the roth area
had a lot of customers around there and of course what he did as you said he had a thing
a measuring thing that he would uh scoop up the milk from the churn and um people would bring
either bring their jugs out or bring a basin for that matter and he filled the basin up gosh
and certainly when I can remember that what about your mother what was her name
oh olive olive olive yes where did they meet your she didn't well I'm not so sure I have I
remember asking friends but I think they met up at what I would think would be the local
tennis club oh yes the 10 in rumney my mother was from rumney my father was a melons yeah
and I think the two got together the tennis club you know goodness so is that quite an active club
I think it must have been I didn't know too much about it but uh yes was she from a farming family
no she didn't she actually was born in bristol
and she had two sisters and they were born in bristol and they all used to live in uh
what was a cottage a place over in rumney that is only recently closed down as the local doctor's
place but um her parents now my grandparents they were from rumney
garrish family and uh but yes as they were born over in bristol lived there for quite some years
until I think there was there wasn't um my grandfather was a carpenter you know and
I think there really wasn't much work over there so they came back to rumney to find work over here
because they knew that they had some of the family were here they lived with them
initially moved in with the family
and then they moved away
yes and he used to used to make uh
oh um on the stairs you know the what you call them the spindles spindles on this thing he used
for houses that were being built really he did a lot of that
often you find carpenters are also coffin makers as well did he ever do anything like that
when what often i've heard that carpenters were also finished coffin makers as well
I don't think he did that as far as I know anyway no did your mother help on the farm
yes she did after they were married yes she did but before that while she was living in rumney
she was a local school teacher really yes in rumney school is that the school you went to
uh yes yes she was a school teacher I did yes she was a school teacher there but when
there but when when she got married they had to give it up like I mean not too long ago
I know when I first started work if you got married you had to leave but then while I was
working they did away with that and we did you could stay on in the end but yes she um
yes as I said we lived in that cottage first of all only for about a year and then moved to rumney
and then upper newton upper newton farm is called yes so did you help with the milking
uh not then but later on
um
there were quite a few cows I suppose I can't remember exactly but we had sheep
because I had a little pet lamb oh I can remember that and they were there was a pig's
cot there oh with two pigs in and also at that time we used to keep used to keep a bull oh oh
I never liked that bull that was in one of the sheds yeah but they used that for
or for extending the herd I suppose yeah but it wasn't safe to be around when the bull was out
because I can remember it was out one afternoon when my father's brother was there
he used to come up occasionally and he was I don't know what he was doing but somehow
they caught him got him down on the ground with his horn the bull in his horns got this uncle
down on the floor and I can remember my mother seeing it she she was so frightened she jumped
out of the window on the back of the house and ran over to the people over the road in the farm
over there to tell them to come and help was he okay he was okay yes yes wasn't too too bad really
how many sheep did your father have how many sheep sheep it wasn't all that many not like they do
today
no I can't remember exactly how many did he ever do the shearing
yes they would do the shearing oh very clipper clipper thing like that you know that's all yeah
yeah
and
they had chickens yes they did yes yeah yes I can remember having we did have chickens
not many chickens and and even ducks occasionally oh goodness
yes and did you grow in your vegetable garden yes there was a very big vegetable garden
at the side of the house and during the war that was where we had our air raid shelter
it was built down in that vegetable garden really yeah who built it I think the council came and
built it and put it in but I can remember the air raid shelter being there and we used to go in
there a lot at night time once the air raid siren would go we'd keep a little out and we'd go in
spent I would spend at least one night in there stay there all night and come out in the daylight
in the morning so what when the siren went did your mother have a bag of stuff ready to bring
well we had this day
the air raid shelter was well it was comfortable no I think my mother they must have got some sort
of bedding there that when we went in there we had something comfortable we could lie down no
maybe a couple of blankets or something and we just stayed there until the all clear went
and very often it wouldn't be until the following morning sort of thing
so was it underground yes yes quite a bit down into the ground it was built yes
yes in that garden at the side it was the side at the side of one of the
the
uh co-sheds as well yes the big co-shed was alongside as well so do you ever
remember feeling frightened being more frightened not really no
no no
no
but we used to get the uh oh
the air raid wardens used to walk around or they were this uh the home guard that's what it was
called yeah used to um
it used to patrol then at the our house was there there was a field and then there was the
you got the um the seawall wasn't far away and these home guard used to parade along the seawall
uh you know because i think there was one the parade at one evening uh i suppose he was in
uniform with his toting his gun and my father must have been down near the seawall because
i think he said that this person said halt who goes there you know oh goodness so you were
oh goodness so you were your farm was close to the seawall adjacent to it adjacent to it
yeah well it just wouldn't feel the way really gosh so did you ever experience flooding
no we didn't there used to be a high tide that would come over the street it would come up
uh on the other side from us they would the water would flood oh and come up has come up
you have a high tide you know come up as far as the wall sometimes but not all that much
but we used to go over
go over there a lot over the seawall and walk over on the lynches as they called them
walk down to what was the lynches lynches where the tide came in oh and uh
we used to
in bare feet we used to get down and walk on the where the tide came in because it was
mud really we were walking in muddy surrounds did your parents ever worry that you're right there
no oh we would we do it with them they would come with us because i can remember my father
lighting a fire i had a bonfire or something once and i think we tried to cook sausages or
something like that i can but um
yes it is but any uh it was a lot of the the seawall was a an area for a lot of cattle
not only ours but other cattle belonging to other farms used to go over there and
were somewhere there where they could sort of graze and things like that they're grazing right
yeah that's right actually on the seawall itself yes depending how much land you had yes it was
according to how many sheeps and cattle that you put on there but there was rules you couldn't put
balls on there and rams you couldn't put balls and rams on there
did your father have to maintain the seawall or was that somebody else
i can't remember them having much to do to maintain it
it was the way the wall went right up that way towards rumney came across us here and then
there was a bend in it was like a wall you'd go around and go on that way and there was then it
would go on down you could get down to peterson you see that way and so was the wharf near you
hmm rumney wharf that's what she's talking about yeah okay okay what'd she say i asked about the
wharf and you're called remny great wharf isn't it yes it was wasn't it so you you remember that
rumney great wharf was it that's what kathy says yeah yes so you remember that being bombed to you
uh well yes we were bombed it wasn't the wharf was all right itself if we were bombed the bomb
landed on our on a barn you know by our house really yes yes we were bombed it was one night it
must in spring i think is when there was one of the worst bombs on cardiff and cardiff area
and we were and funny enough we weren't in the very cheddar that night we were in the house
we'd uh myself and my sister my mother and the dog were all sort of sitting and we had the table
in the middle there was a chest big chest that side there was a piano that side and then my
father had put a a big thick uh oh what would you call it sleeper a plank cross
and we all we were underneath that underneath the table and the plank and uh with with my sister
my mother and the dog and my father happened to be out just not under the in the room but not
under the tank and all of a sudden i think he heard he heard this whistle and he was of a bomb
coming down and he sort of got down quickly and uh it's the base near i'm surprised that they
we did have something covering the door because you have to have blackouts you know and things
but uh did the bomb explode yes it landed on one of the uh
on the other side of the bar there was a barn between us
yeah there was the house there was the garden then there was the barn and then the other side of that
there were a few shed couchers and which animals were in and that's where it landed really on the
on the shed the barn and the shed and the shed was it really loud oh it's very loud
but the vibration of it i mean affected the house though because i can remember sitting in the house
and looking up and i could see where the ceilings moved away and i could see up through
could see up through there oh my goodness were you all frightened not really we did one you know
just wondered what had happened you know anyway when my dad got us out of the house he did wonder
whether or not the house might have collapsed so he got us out
dragged us over the local the little gates we had there because the blast had uh
jammed the gate shut and we couldn't open it gosh so my father had to lift us all over
and we all went across the yard down on the road down to the next farm
and we knocked them up and said oh we've just been bombed so they took us in there and i think
we did stay a couple of nights there gosh it's amazing Stephanie talking about this
incredible story you always take it in your stride
but was there much damage did you lose any animals we did one animal oh no
calves they were a couple of calves i think were killed but there was one cow that had been
chained up in one of the sheds who with a blast she was blown blown out they found her wandering
up around the field the next morning with the chain around her neck still alive yes alive
how amazing how amazing gosh yes it was amazing
what did she say oh i mean the cow had post-traumatic stress
oh yes yeah so was it business as usual you went back home well yeah you had to really i mean
i seem to remember we stayed a couple of nights with the people next door
and then from there we moved over to where my mother's other sister and her husband family lived
over in cattletown in well code curnew yeah i came through it coming here yes there was a house
and farm there that they were so i think we had a few nights there with them
um because i can remember getting a bus the next morning must have had some clothes with us and
i was at that time going to school in town i went to our ladies conference school so i
got the bus from code curnew into town and knocked the school door and said oh we've been bombed
out and they said oh yes we have as well they they'd had the fire fire there was burnt a lot of
other the school away yes there was a lot of bomb damage i think that particular time night
but then eventually we got back to rumney and we had um there was
uh the farm what was it called
peter may peter may they were billeted the farm where the prices lived long cross long cross farm
yeah we moved in with them yeah and it was through there was a what they called a billet
billeting yeah a billeting manager they had to find a place anybody bombed out they had to find
accommodation for them okay and they found us accommodation there yeah that's that's the farm
where these people lived and we were living there i think about a at least a year oh really yes so
what happened to why if your house was intact so why why did you leave your farm was there just
too much damage i think so well my father didn't want to stay there i think he felt that
because of the you know everything seemed to have got loose in the house he felt that the house could
collapse on us you know yeah that it wasn't but we were lucky eventually after staying a year about
long cross the other there was another farm before you got a long cross this was ceter bain farm
which was there next to that house there was a a searchlight battery and i think the man had lived
there i think he he'd managed to get out he'd had enough of it he didn't want to stay there any longer
he moved somewhere up the i can't remember where over the back of some islands
and put his house up for sale and my father bought the house there
and land and we moved in there and we were there ever since until my father died gosh
so was that still in robinney well it was just a few yards up the road from where we were
when we bombed out oh gosh so yeah so it was rumney really yes what happened to your old
newton upper newton farm well we well we didn't do anything with it and it was used my father did
use it for a certain length of time um with cattle there and i think he obviously was able to milk
the cows i think from there but eventually it was moved most of it back up to teter main when
we were and was that still within sight of the seawall or was that yes yes it is
yes i mean we were there seawall was there we were there upper newton and it was just one or two
fields up and then there was ceter bain there's a few houses around around there so as a child you
probably aren't aware of the pressures your parents were under finding a home and keeping
money coming in it must have been yes hard for your parents yes so i tried already had some
oh get the milk business going again and and did you continue going to school
yes i did so what was your sister's name what was your sister's name janice janice yes
she i think she died some years ago um
yes uh
i'm trying to think though if i'd started school high school while i was in we were in newton
upper newton farm
and then of course i continued high school from
teter main but i had to walk up the road walk to the local the nearest bus stop
yeah and get the bus into town to get to school eventually yeah this is intercardiff
yes intercardiff that was so was there lots of damage then lots of bomb damage there was at the
school yes it it had uh what called an incendiary bomb as it caught fire no
did any of your neighbours did anyone any friends or neighbours get bombed did anyone lose their
um not immediately close no i got an idea one or two places up in rumney may have got
bombed i can't remember too much about that i know that there were one or two farms down
towards peterston some brides that were
they'd have didn't lose too much they'd like them they got the the roof of the buildings got blown
off something like that and there was one house that we i can remember visited that was bombed
and they built a new house there and that must have been to do with the tridegar estate
on that land and they would replace it by building a new house but we didn't
no we didn't have that i mean we actually i was glad when we bought this other farm
she said me because we moved up a bit further and it was getting nearer to the to the village
really that i used to find the other place was a long way down that we had to what you'd walk up
and our cycle everywhere mostly into rumney um but even i think from food teacher me we used to cycle
into rumney and leave my sister and i used to cycle because we went the same school
and we used to park our bikes at the bottom of rubbley village and then get the best into town
no did you did you have to wear a uniform to school then yes did we did our school uniforms
i went to the conference school our ladies conference school were you catholics no no
you couldn't no we weren't really honey we i don't know we didn't pass high enough to go
to the proper high school so we went there my parents paid for us to be educated there
do you know what i've heard people talk about stories of um
um you know when people grazing their cows on the foreshore beyond the sea wall
i've even heard somebody talk about hay making of you know the little islands off the shore
do you know anything about that
hay making i didn't do any hay making over there
and but your father used to do it up here he he did some hay making here where these houses are
yes but he was really helping my uncle my uncle that was living down here and he was a farmer
uh all all the three brothers were all farmers i think except one was a school teacher and he
was the only one but um there were i can remember the the lorries of
it must have been lorries would go streaming down the road past the farm down to the
sea wall they usually they were army lorries yeah and they were getting rid of the unexploded bombs
that were around and we used to we used to see these lorries going oh speeding really ever so
fast down the road they got to get down to the sea wall before the bomb exploded and what did
they do the bomb when they got to the sea wall well i think they must have dumped it on they
took it and dumped it on the uh where where the as we called them lynches were which was where the
sea sea came up so far and then you got the there was a lot of grass on the sea wall yeah because
a lot of animals were over there but they were dumped down in the mud you somewhere you know
i wonder they ever exploded when they were i don't know whether i can't remember
know whether they exploded or not how do you spell lynches lynches yeah how would you spell that
um l i n c h e s l y l y c h e s lynches well that's what we used to call them anyway
sorry sorry gaffi do you know rose yes she'll know about that yes so she she's gathering all
the words isn't she yeah yeah i think i think she's what's that marjorie neal oh just somebody
we know called rose she's gathering all the vocabulary of the um do you call the levels
levels or moors some people call it more yeah the moors rumney moors would you say moors or levels
well i i moors i suppose initially years ago but they seem to call be calling the place
the levels don't they know did you ever swim in the sea
i try i know i don't think we did really but it was because it was an awful lot of mud there
that it was just mud that you were walking and not swimming and
fishing down there and put your ranks and stuff was that yes there was one local man
who used to come down here regularly even when we were in the teacher main they used to see him
cycling down the road going over to the wharf and i don't know where he went exactly but
he used to get a lot of fish and he used to get a lot of fish and he used to get a lot of fish
used to catch yes he used to put some i think he used to put something out like we could see these
pieces of wood standing up in the in the water over there i think it must have been some sort
of trap that he put to catch fish was it like a butcher you know like the conical
um no i could they were just ordinary oh straight friends can't remember too much about them
but i on the way home he was often call in if he got fish and caught a lot yeah um he would call
in and we would my mother would buy some fish off him it's very good there a salmon or it was
flatfish as we called it okay what was that place isn't it it was mostly place i think yeah
fresh fish yes certainly fresh did anyone else ever fish off the shore there i don't know
of anyone else that did but there was just this oh did you copy did you say you did yeah
oh what you say they can't you sister's boyfriend sister's boyfriend did you do
your sister's boyfriend i used to go my sister's ex-boyfriend used to go fishing over there
kathy used to go with her sister's ex-boyfriend they used to go fishing together oh that's it
okay all right what about the the reams did your dad have to maintain the reams yes they did have
to maintain the reams yeah because we used to have one a guy why we were before we moved from
where we were born doubt we used to have employee men to do a lot of the work in around the farm
and it was mostly digging out the reams to keep them clear really yeah they were two different
and they used to come they used to live on the farm but they'd live in the barn you know they'd
we'd stick up put up a bed for them in the barn and they would sleep there and
yes we'd had two i can remember now and they were very strong men and one was particularly strong
he used to call him a digger i think a digger and he came came from somewhere like oh jersey
or channel islands i think i seem to remember them saying yeah but
yes he certainly kept the the reams very clear and used to oh dig them all up all the muds when
push them up on the side of the on the bank of the side of the ream yes they used to do that every
so often i mean at least once a year i would think it was did they use special tools do you know
oh i don't think so just
a spade or something or it a fork and spade
what about eels eel traps and things like that in the reams did you know anything about that
i didn't know of any there now on the
um
the oh the farm the one that caught on fire recently
what was the price is farm called long cross i don't know why i can't remember it long cross
now near the just before you get to long cross there was like a little bridge almost over the
ream and i can remember going over there and standing looking down into the ream and seeing
these eels they did have eels there but not um i don't think i don't know they got there
but not in generally amongst them the reams but um yes there were certainly quite a few eels there
and then they we then go from there up and because the long cross farm really was on the main road out
and um did you remember the names of your reams on your land do you remember the names of them
of your reams on your land do you remember the names of them the names of the reams on your
no i don't remember and you know i'm afraid
oh but during the war i can remember the american soldiers yeah geese yeah walking down
and we we go up to go up to the village or go as far as long cross and stand there and
and you'd look up the road and you'd see all this these load of these um american gis all
marching down the road they'd all been billeted up in rumney somewhere yeah and uh
uh they would go they marched down every morning because there were some some of works down the
other end and they were all working there at these i don't know what they did exactly but
but i as a child i can remember them marching around did they ever talk to you or give you
sweets or anything like that oh not wait i think they did up in rumney there were more children
up there so your dad was too old for the second world war yes but he wasn't he wasn't um not
really um he wasn't called up because of being a farmer of course he was in uh what do they call it
a something reserved occupation reserved occupation yes as a farmer no none of our family were in the
war because they his brothers they they were all the family were all farmers you see
did you ever play in the reams or jump over the rings oh no
yes across to the seawall yeah but they were it was only having a plank of wood
yeah and as kids we used to fall in what she said i can't hear what you say
cathie is saying that her grandfather used to put planks across the reams oh yes to get over to the
wall on the seawall yeah yes he did had big planks yeah across it was easy to cross over the rings
but then cathie used to fall in and get covered in duckweed
oh
so what sort of games did you play as a child
did you ever play i can't really remember playing games too much no
oh
yes i said we did really what did you have to do
i can't remember what we didn't go actually milking the cows then
used to feed the chickens
we was oh some of the chickens oh i can remember one or two of them
especially the cockerels they were really flighty ones they'd fly they'd fly right up and pack you
on your legs but my father would
but my father would
he'd if he wanted to we'd he'd kill a chicken for christmas you know
christmas time the chickens were really valuable and he'd kill one and
feather it and i can remember feathering it yes did you and then
yes they would kill them and the ducks and we were
it was very useful really because during the war food was rationed yeah and we had our own
as i said dad would kill christmas time he'd kill a chicken or kill a duck and
i think he even they were allowed to kill one pig a year for food
was there a village pig killer who used to come oh there was somebody who came around
yes they were and
so nothing was wasted no not really no no no we certainly did very well for food you know although
it was rationed during the war did your mother do lots of bottling of fruit and vegetables
they did a certain amount yes
yes because we did have those bottles that you could get the jars killed their jars yes that's
right that you could preserve the fruit or whatever in the well for food you know although it was
rationed during the war did your mother do lots of bottling of fruit and vegetables they did a
kill no jobs yes that's right that you could
preserve the fruit or whatever in
so do you do you see yourself as a welsh woman or a woman of the levels or the malls
i don't have no thought about either really
you just give me a sense of how much this area has changed stephanie because
i mean it must have been really moral once was it well there is um oh it's built upon now you see
isn't it i mean as i said this this place here where all these houses are built was
uh
it it was used to cut yeah they cut the grass make hay from it because it was my uncle that
used to do it he used to look after cutting the hay this field here and the one next to it
and sometimes my father would come up and help him you know and i can remember dancing around on
around on almost the road out here and it was hay we was uh that we were dancing on sort of
thing you know really oh yes but and and because the road down below it's really a main road down
there now but it used to be a very narrow country road not much traffic no not much traffic um even
when we moved in here and there were no buses to get for them to get to school they used to send a
lorry or a van up here in which leslie and kathy would get in and they take them to school and
and bring them back in the afternoon but um so do you know the levels on the other side of the usk
do you know that area very much no
no i don't really
what did she say they're better on this side no
because he's so built up over here we're right at the limit aren't we
right yeah
it's more built up here yes yes it's always been uh that main road has always been there
but they have since since my childhood days they were they made it wider and cost a lot more houses
along there now when i was in school over in remny they were oh very few houses one odd
house here and there along the main road you know and then all of a sudden they started
widening the road and building more houses and that's how remny was extended
it you've got amazing views from here though haven't you yes yes if only i could appreciate
them now i did when we first moved in but i can't now it's no good i can't see it but um
yes and they were one i can remember one house on the main road it was
where one of the school teachers lived in there oh have you got any photographs of your childhood
oh yeah i don't think so have i yeah of the newton here go have a look
what's she saying kathy's going to have a look to see if she can find any photographs well there
were a lot of photographs around but i don't know what's happened to them
um so if there's anything you'd like to add stephanie i haven't asked you about
as a teenager on the levels and remny what did you do oh i never really appreciated
time on the farm as a teenager i used to i used to always wanted to why can't we move
nearer up into the village a bit more and i i'd have to be able to get to my friends these there
and then because i used to visit some of the lot up there but but then to get home
i had to get my bike and cycle home oh nighttime it was dark cycling
um and it was all downhill was it yes it was really
yeah because one or at least one of the bridges that was there we used to go over
as big that's been knocked down it's not there now really so bridges to go over the rings you mean
a bridge no railway line oh really yeah it was the railway line they went over i mean the railway
line is still there but they used to be
i think i can vaguely remember they in marshfield i think they had a
the trains would stop in marshfield at one time years ago yes there was a station there
gosh did you ever use it i don't remember using it no no
oh so was your husband a farmer no no he wasn't he wasn't he lived up in rumney
yeah uh david he was uh he was an architect was he really he did all these paintings
really yes that one there the opposite dog i think that one yeah
so maybe one of the boats here yes he did that yeah there's the one behind you
that he did that's my granddaughter well i know there's one of my granddaughter further over
that's on uh what you call it
it's very good the the young one yes that's my granddaughter when she's about
four or five years old isn't she gorgeous isn't she gorgeous yeah yeah and then further over is
the one taken when she graduated from university
oh
and then there's a couple of other
paintings in the other room as well he did a lot of paintings
and there's a lot in of the grandchildren he did in the in the in the near the front door and
and so you moved here in 1960 did you say 1960 so were these new then newly built yes they were
newly built wimpy's was the name of the builders i don't know whether they're around now so where
had you moved from to come here oh we after when we were first married we lived down on the farm
with my parents for about a year yeah but i i wanted to get out i wanted to be near a town
so we discovered that where i was working in a bank in lord's bank and there was some guy there
was living in a flat in town and he was about to move out told me about it so i said oh we'll see
see if we can have it you know yeah we did so we had a flat there not far from
albany road i think it was and we lived there for seven years actually actually my other daughter
was born while we were there and then it was when i was expecting cathy that we moved out here
and what was it like moving in here knowing that your dad had made hay here and stuff
oh yes i i don't know i can't
can't believe that it happened all those years ago
it's amazing and with some occasionally we talk about
because when the original narrow road down here it went up stopped and then it went down round
bit further down and there was a a water pipe in the road and this water was continually running
out of this pipe and i think there must have come from over
i said that the water came from rumney or lan rumney came through
it must have been something somewhere
because rem well i suppose remney's got a few old places and amongst them you know yeah did you ever
go to church as a child yes or chapel we went to the baptist chapel in rumney yeah yes every sunday
yes we did would you walk up on the farm we'd have to walk and we'd go my sister and i would
go to sunday school we'd use our bikes then even in the wet weather i can remember
riding up on my bikes leaving them out the side of the church and go to sunday school
and then get back home and
it was amazing i didn't like it from that point of view i hated having to cycle all the way up
in all the weather the wet weather and
but yes it was a rumney baptist that was and there were one or two shops
rumney it was called rumney village and it was just a village then in those days
so did it have a shop and the baker and the pub yes they did yes yes
but um it must have been so rural
yes i mean the this this um
name on the bus telling you where it's going was rumney village it wasn't just rumney it was rumney
village and it used to come out from town and it would only go into the middle of the village
they even cut down the length of their journey you know during the war to save uh petrol i suppose
so as a child did you have electricity in your farmhouse we didn't in the first farm no
and we didn't in the second farm uh no it was oil lamps oh i hated it from that point of view
but eventually my my father did manage to get they brought the electricity
by poles so uh so it ended up in the farm next to us and my father used to say well why don't
they bring it over here as well uh but we did get it over but my father had to pay it
that's for it to be brought over that we had electricity in the farm then because they were
then able to use um electricity for milking the cows you know yeah which happened to know it was
always hand so when would that have been stephanie would that be in the 40s um or the 50s
when what when did the electricity come to the farm
it must have been in the 50s let me see if we were the early 40s that we were bombed out
and when 39 45 the war ended in the um
oh maybe maybe in the late 40s then it probably came
and it was so it made such a difference to the work to have the electricity there
so what had your mother been cooking on was it wood oh she had an oven uh stove
uh stove what do they call it a grange um paraffin oh god so big stove
smelly funded by paraffin and there was an oven on top that used to put stuff in to cook
but there was um oh what was there we did have a
oh
kitchen no it was a kitchen in the house and then there was an outside room outside in which oh
but eventually we do we used to my father got a stove from somewhere
and i think we used to have to get it going to use some firewood you know when to get it working
about your water where did your water come from oh
well if we certainly had water on all right anyway i don't know where it came from
it certainly certainly had a water supply there
but even when we moved into that farm there were no electricity there were there was quite a
let me see one two three there were four very big bedrooms but then we had one of them
converted into a bathroom gosh and indoor toilet there was no indoor toilets you know
things like that there's at the end of the garden yes that was the privy down the garden end of the
garden and that would have been like a compost toilet would it yes that was down you went outside
right and down a lane that was down behind a big hedge really
and you had to use it might you had to use well my father dealt with it had to use some
keep its supplies with oh what was that stuff that they used that sawdust so no no it was
like a liquid it was like oh i can't think no
did you have a chamber pot under the bed yes we did we certainly did i think it was in all the
bedroom until eventually my father got the you got the local builder came in to alter it and
put a toilet in and then we did have a more of a toilet out in the garden then
but yes did you ever experience poachers on your farm people coming to grab a chicken or
oh not really no i don't remember that the only people that we used to have around but
with the gypsies yeah but sometimes
they were in a way they were genuine tipsies because i can remember one gypsy caravan coming
down the road was parked just at the top of the road before you turned in to our place
and he asked asked my father permission could he stay there for a month or something and which he
did and they were all right but they were quite well behaved gypsies actually did they work on the
farm and no they didn't know they might remember i mean we did have workers on the farm but i i
tell oh my father got hold of them there were two one that used to weigh he must have been
i've been in the army at one time because he used to weigh where uh ex army great coach you know
and he was the one that the ones that we had to work on the farm there were just two all together
um we give them accommodation in uh in our shed and barn you know we'd fix up some place where
it was really comfortable the day would sleep there you know so were the gypsies regular visitors
or would you see them in the well they were they were for the um the ones that works
i can't remember now how long days were they may perhaps stayed about a year and then
another one would come and stay a year
and then we did have there was somebody my father knew from that was in town he was a townie
he came out to help out on the farm i think my father must have come across him through the milk
round that he had perhaps he supplies the family with milk and and he because he used to come out
and used to stay as well god we've got some photographs here do you manage to find
that's her mother and father oh oh gosh that's them get married where do they get married which
church did they get married at oh there's a rumney rumney rumney church but in what was what
eventually became the catholic church because then they had a new um
a new baptist chapel was built by the local builders in remney gosh
you all right cathie no maybe i'm i'm done now cathie i just saw
right just have a look at these fantastic photographs oh my goodness
oh we we're very high on the photographs we got loads of photos
wow such fantastic fashions i know oh dear can you hold one up a minute to see if i can see it
sorry no so there's oh god no i don't think i can do you want this one here
let's try that one first of all
oh no no i can't really it's not so i turn it over and see
let me just have a look at one of them and then you could look at the rest
i'll just turn this off now stephanie all right okay i'm just going to turn it off now
you